Study on the Characteristics of Tidal Bore and Influencing Factors at the Jiu Xi Section of the Qiantang River Estuary
Yang Huoqi, Wangqiushun,Yang Yuanping

(Zhejiang Institute of Hydraulics & Estuary, Hangzhou, 310020Ł¬Zhejiang, China)
Abstract: A profound understanding of the characteristics of the tidal bore and its influencing factors in the Jiu Xi section of the Qiantang River Estuary is crucial for the protection of the tidal bore landscape and the prevention of related disasters. This study utilized long-term series of actual hydrological and topographical data, supplemented by a mathematical model of tidal bore, to comprehensively analyze the combined impact of natural factors such as tides, river flow, and riverbed topography, as well as human activities including reservoirs, sluices, and dams on the tidal bore in the Jiu Xi section. The results show that the tidal range at the downstream sluice station is positively correlated with the strength of the tidal bore. The magnitude of river flow directly and indirectly affects the tidal bore through riverbed erosion and deposition, especially during the flood season, where an increase in river flow leads to a rise in the strength of the tidal bore. The construction of the Coral Sand Reservoir near the Jiu Xi section, forming a trumpet-shaped nearshore topography and the upward elevation of the underwater terrain, is key to the enhanced and visually appealing tidal bore in this area. Additionally, the operation of the Yan Shan River sluice is a major driving factor in the formation of surging, returning, and over-dike tidal bore scenes, while the construction of the Jiu Xi Shun Dam plays a role in mitigating these phenomena. These findings provide important insights for the formulation of effective tidal bore management and disaster prevention strategies..
Keywords: Qiantang River estuary; Jiuxi'an section; Characteristics of tidal bore; Influencing factors;

ˇˇˇˇ
1 Intrudction
ˇˇˇˇThe tidal bore of the Qiantang River is one of the world's natural wonders. During the high tides of summer and autumn, various forms of tidal bores can be observed at different locations in the Qiantang River Estuary, such as the fish-scale bore, crossover bore, secondary bore, rebounding bore, line bore, returning bore, and surging bore. Among these, the Jiu Xi section, as the most upstream viewing point of the estuary, offers a spectacular view of surging and reflective bores overtopping the embankment.
ˇˇˇˇTidal bores are not commonly seen in many estuaries around the world, and most are small in scale with limited viewing value. In China, tidal bores can be observed in only four locations: the north branch of the Yangtze River estuary, the Qiantang River estuary, the Jiaojiang and Aojiang river estuaries. In recent decades, scholars from home and abroad have used field observations, theoretical analysis, numerical simulation, and physical model experiments to study the causes, hydrodynamic characteristics, and propagation laws of tidal bores, identifying tides, river flow, riverbed topography, and meteorological conditions as the main influencing factors.
ˇˇˇˇThe tidal bore is a result of the deformation of the tidal wave front in shallow water, making tides the most important factor affecting the scale of the bore. Zhou Qiansheng preliminarily analyzed the relationship between the height of the tidal bore in the Hangzhou section of the Qiantang River and the tides based on measured data. Xie Dongfeng and others established a correlation formula between the height of the bore in the Yanguan river section and the tidal range.
ˇˇˇˇRiver flow has both direct and indirect effects on the tidal bore. The direct effect is the immediate impact on the tidal bore caused by changes in pre-tidal flow speed and water depth due to river flow; the indirect effect is the impact on tides and the tidal bore caused by riverbed erosion and deposition due to river flow. For example, Zeng Jian and others used neural networks to predict the height of the bore at the Yanguan station, finding a positive correlation between bore height and river flow when the flow is less than 7000 cubic meters per second, and a negative correlation when it exceeds this threshold. Zhang Shuyu and others used a tidal bore mathematical model to calculate the impact of topography on the tidal waves of the Qiantang River estuary, thereby indirectly analyzing its impact on the height of the bore.
ˇˇˇˇMeteorological conditions, especially changes in the wind field, also cause changes in tidal bore characteristics. For example, Pan Cunhong and others used a three-dimensional mathematical model to analyze the direct impact of following and opposing winds on the height, flow speed, propagation speed, and scenery of the tidal bore in the Qiantang River.
ˇˇˇˇHuman activities also have a significant impact on the tidal bore. Lu Xiangxing and others studied the impact of bridge construction on the tidal bore; Lu Haiyan and others used measured data and a two-dimensional tidal bore numerical model to explore the impact of large-scale river management and reclamation projects that began in the 1960s on the tidal bore of the Qiantang River.
ˇˇˇˇBuilding on previous studies of the impact of natural factors and human activities on the strength of the tidal bore, this paper deeply analyzes the unique morphological characteristics of the tidal bore in the Jiu Xi section and the impact of related natural factors and human activities (especially water-related engineering construction) on the strength and form of the tidal bore. Recognizing the factors that have led to the increased viewing value of the tidal bore at the downstream end of the Qiantang River Estuary's Jiu Xi section, this paper provides a scientific basis and technical support for assessing the impact of human activities on the tidal bore and protecting the tidal bore landscape.
2 Basic Situation of the Jiu Xi Section
ˇˇˇˇA massive sandbar exists in the longitudinal profile of the Qiantang River estuary, stretching from Wenjiayan to Jiazhu in Hangzhou Bay, covering a distance of about 130 km, as shown in Figure 1. The elevation of the sandbar's top changes around the Cangqian area, standing about 10 meters higher than the riverbed line from Wenjiayan to Jiazhu (see Figure 2). This colossal sandbar, combined with the trumpet-shaped planform of the estuary, shapes the unique tidal bore landscape of the Qiantang River.
ˇˇˇˇThe Jiu Xi section is located at the end of the transitional zone of the Qiantang River estuary. Subjected to the combined effects of river flow and tides, the riverbed undergoes drastic erosion and deposition changes. After long-term regulation, the narrowest cross-section of the engineered river section has stabilized at about 1 km in width, with the main channel near the left bank. The underwater topographic map of the Jiu Xi section in July 2020 shows that the front line of the deep channel is about 500 meters from the bank (see Figure 3). The tidal bore viewing area of the Jiu Xi section is a locally trumpet-shaped, historically retained concave area formed by the embankment of the Coral Sand Reservoir, the Jiu Xi sluice, and the flood defense dike of Zhijiang Road (see Figure 4). The embankment crest of the Coral Sand Reservoir is about 10.5 meters high; the length of the Jiu Xi Shun Dam is 250 meters, with a top elevation ranging from 6.06 to 5.46 meters; the top elevation of the wave-blocking wall of the Zhijiang flood defense dike in the Jiu Xi section is 9.71 meters.

Fig.1. Situation Map of Jiuxi Bank Section at the Qiantang River Estuary

Fig.2. Longitudinal Profile of the Qiantang River Estuary Riverbed - Schematic Diagram of Sandbanks

Fig.3. Underwater topography Near the Jiuxi Section Bank (July 2020)

Fig.4. Tidal Bore Viewing Area in the Trumpet-Shaped Concave Region of the Jiuxi Section Bank.
ˇˇˇˇThe tidal data recorded at the sluice station, located about 2 kilometers downstream of the Jiu Xi section, effectively reflects the tidal characteristics of the Jiu Xi section. According to statistical data from 1953 to 2022, the station's long-term average high tide level is 4.4 meters, and the average low tide level is 3.84 meters. The largest tidal range recorded in history occurred on September 8, 2002, reaching 3.69 meters.
3 Characteristics of the Tidal Bore in the Jiuxi Bank Section
ˇˇˇˇBased on field observations, when the intensity of the tidal bore is high, it can be observed that the tidal bore waves progress towards the river section corresponding to the Liuhe Pagoda after passing through the Qiantang River Bridge. In this process, the tidal bore usually appears as several parallel wave trains. As it approaches the north bank, the tidal front gradually becomes more distinct, and fragmentation begins to occur near the seawall. In the main channel area, due to the greater water depth, the tidal bore takes on a wavy form, and sometimes even disappears. When the tidal head approaches about 30 meters downstream of the Jiuxi Shun Dam, the tidal head sometimes forms intense breaking and rolling phenomena, crossing the dam and crashing into the seawall. At the foot of the seawall slope, the tidal bore further heightens and progresses towards the concave mouth of Jiuxi, creating huge waves of more than ten meters in height when crashing into the end point at the Yan Shan river drainage sluice. Subsequently, the tidal head is reflected, returning along the bottom of the seawall, forming what is known as the returning tide. If these reflected returning tides exceed the top of the Zhijiang flood defense dyke, the accumulated water may surge into Zhijiang Road. Figure 5 shows the propagation and changes of the tidal bore near the dyke in the Jiuxi bank section on September 20, 2020 (the fourth day of the eighth lunar month).


Fig.5. Process of tidal bore propagating and transforming near the seawall of the Jiuxi section bank
4 Factors Affecting the Tidal Bore in the Jiuxi Bank Section
4.1 Runoff and Riverbed Erosion and Sedimentation
ˇˇˇˇThe volume of runoff and the concentration of floods play a decisive role in the erosion and sedimentation changes of the Qiantang River estuary riverbed. Specifically, the larger the annual runoff and flood volume, the more pronounced the scouring of the riverbed, leading to a significant drop in the low tide level along the river section. Despite minor changes in the high tide level of astronomical tides (except for storm surges), this drop in low tide level causes a greater tidal range, thereby enhancing the intensity of the tidal bore. Conversely, when the volume of runoff or floods decreases, riverbed sedimentation increases, bed resistance is enhanced, the low tide level correspondingly rises, resulting in a reduced tidal range and weakened tidal bore intensity.
ˇˇˇˇThe total annual runoff and its distribution throughout the year also affect the planform morphology of the river's main channel. Under conditions of high runoff and concentrated floods, the scouring action of the river straightens the channel, facilitating the upstream progression of the tidal bore; on the other hand, when sedimentation occurs and the river channel becomes more winding, it hinders the advance of the tidal bore. In consecutive dry years or dry periods, this response mechanism is particularly evident.
ˇˇˇˇTaking 2019 and 2020 as examples, these two years saw consecutive wet years accompanied by concentrated floods (the downstream discharge at the Fuchun River power station upstream in 2019 and 2020 were 1300 cubic meters/second and 1212 cubic meters/second, respectively, which are 1.46 and 1.34 times the multi-year average. The average flow in July reached 3805 cubic meters/second and 3876 cubic meters/second, respectively, which are 3.24 and 3.3 times the flow in the same period in previous years, as shown in Figure 6). This phenomenon led to an increased relative intensity of the tidal bore in these two years, with serious instances observed in the Jiuxi area of the tidal bore overtopping the flood defense dyke to Zhijiang Road, directly linked to consecutive wet years.
ˇˇˇˇ

Fig.6. Monthly Discharge of Fuchunjiang Hydropower Station (2019, 2020)
ˇˇˇˇIn the Jiuxi bank section, significant impacts caused by strong tidal bores and tidal bores overtopping the dam and pond mainly occur from April to July during wet years with high upstream runoff. Specifically, this situation occurred in the wet years of 1995, 2002, 2015, 2020, and 2021 (see Figure 7).

Fig.7. Average Flow from April to July Compared with the Average Difference of Spring Tides in the Lunar July, August, and September of the Same Year

ˇˇˇˇIn the autumn of 2021, the tidal bore phenomenon extended up to the northern branch of the Fuchun River, surpassing the Wenyan River section. Particularly in early October (corresponding to the high tide period of the ninth lunar month), several incidents of the tidal bore overtopping the dam and pond occurred in the Jiuxi bank section. This phenomenon is closely related to the significant increase in the downstream flow in August and September. Specifically, from August 1 to September 15, 2021, the average discharge downstream of the power station reached 1362 cubic meters per second, twice the average level of the same period in previous years. This larger flow significantly affected the intensity and upstream range of the tidal bore.
4.2 Tides
ˇˇˇˇTides at the Qiantang River estuary show clear interannual and annual variation characteristics. Among them, the change in the low tide level is particularly significant, mainly influenced by the swaying of the riverbed plane and vertical erosion and sedimentation changes. Further, these changes in the riverbed itself are directly affected by the seasonal and interannual variations in runoff.
4.2.1 Interannual Variations
ˇˇˇˇThe Jiuxi bank section is located upstream of the top of the sandbank at the Qiantang River estuary. The low tide level in this area is significantly affected by the elevation of the top of the downstream sandbank. When the top of the sandbank accumulates sediment, the low tide level in the Jiuxi bank section, upstream of the sandbank, rises; conversely, when the top of the sandbank is eroded, the low tide level in this section drops. The elevation of the top of the sandbank is closely related to wet, normal, and dry years. Usually, in wet years, the elevation of the top of the sandbank decreases, and the low tide level in the Jiuxi section is also lower, increasing the tidal volume and kinetic energy of the upstream tidal surge, leading to an increased tidal range. Figure 8 shows the annual average high and low tide levels, tidal range, and annual maximum tidal range at the sluice hydrological station. It can be seen that in wet years (such as 1995, 2002, 2015, 2020, etc.), the low tide level is lower, the tidal range is larger, and correspondingly, the dynamics of the tidal bore are stronger.

Fig.8 Annual average high and low tidal level, tidal range, and annual maximum tidal range at Zhakou station
4.2.2 Annual Variations
ˇˇˇˇBased on data from 1988 to 2021 (see Figure 9), the monthly average low tide level at the Jiuxi bank section (sluice station) shows specific trends throughout the year. Specifically, from January to March, there is a gradual increase in the low tide level; from April to June, changes in the low tide level are relatively slow; in July, there is a noticeable decrease in the low tide level; and from August onwards, the monthly average low tide level gradually shows an increasing trend. These changes reflect the cyclical fluctuations of tidal characteristics in the Jiuxi bank section over the course of a year.
 
Fig.9 Monthly Average High and Low Tidal Level Changes within the Year (1988-2021)
ˇˇˇˇTherefore, the tidal range in the Jiuxi bank section shows significant seasonal variations throughout the year. Specifically, from August to October, after the plum rain season, during the high tide period, the tidal range reaches its maximum; next is the flood season from April to July; and during the dry season from December to the following March, the weak tide period, the tidal range is at its minimum. This variation reflects the differences in tidal dynamics in the Qiantang River estuary area in different seasons.
4.3 Planform Profile and Subaqueous Topography
ˇˇˇˇThe Jiuxi river section, located at the estuary of the Qiantang River, is in an area where the intensity of the tidal bore has significantly weakened. Moreover, due to the large elevation difference between the channel and the beach in the engineered river section, the geomorphological and hydrodynamic conditions required to form a scenic tidal bore are quite stringent. These geographical and hydrological characteristics make the Jiuxi river section a unique and challenging location for studying and observing the tidal bore phenomenon.
4.3.1 Planform Profile
ˇˇˇˇThe Jiuxi bank section is located on the concave bank of the Coral Sand meander, adjacent to the Coral Sand Reservoir. In this area, the downstream dyke protrudes outward, forming a unique geographical environment. When the tidal bore propagates to this meander, due to the sharp curvature of the terrain and the combined effect of the dyke of the Coral Sand Reservoir and the flood defense dyke of Zhijiang Road forming a local funnel-shaped planform structure, the flow and energy are concentrated inwards (see Figure 4). This hydrogeomorphological structure significantly impacts the propagation and morphology of the tidal bore, enhancing its dynamics, making the tidal bore in this area exhibit unique characteristics.
4.3.2 River Channel Topography
ˇˇˇˇThe tidal bore morphology at the Qiantang River estuary is significantly influenced by the water depth at the low tide level before the rising tide. In deeper waters, the tidal bore usually consists of a series of parallel propagating waves; in shallower beach areas, the tidal head often breaks due to rapid currents, forming swirling tidal bores. Observations in the Jiuxi bank section have found that when the tidal head passes through the Qiantang River Bridge, due to large elevation differences in the river channel topography, especially the difference in water depth before the tide in the channel and beach area reaching up to 10 meters (see Figure 3), no breaking tidal bore head is usually observed in the main channel area. For example, on September 20, 2020 (the fourth day of the eighth lunar month), when the low tide level before the tide was 4.21 meters (tidal range of 2.49 meters), a distinct breaking tidal bore was only observed when the tidal bore head advanced to shallower waters (riverbed elevation of about 2.0 meters or higher), while in deeper areas, it appeared as a wavy tidal bore. Approximately 30 meters downstream of the Jiuxi Shun Dam, due to the rapid rise of the subaqueous topography, the tidal bore morphology quickly transformed from wavy to intensely breaking and swirling (see Figure 10).

Fig.10 Tidal bore morphology in the river and near the Bank in the Jiuxi Section.
4.3.3 Local Topography Near the Pond
ˇˇˇˇFigure 11 displays three longitudinal profiles located 100 meters, 150 meters, and 200 meters from the sea pond, upstream and downstream of the Jiuxi Shun Dam to the Yan Shan River sluice. As seen in the figure, apart from the protruding Jiuxi Shun Dam, there is a prominent local topographical feature similar to a river mouth sandbank. This special terrain extends approximately 620 meters in length with an elevation difference of about 2.8 meters, and its downstream side has an average longitudinal slope gradient of 4.5ˇë. In contrast, the sandbank at the Qiantang River estuary stretches an astonishing 130 kilometers, with an elevation difference of about 10 meters, and a downstream longitudinal slope gradient of only 0.11-0.17ˇë. This local topography's similarity to the sandbank at the Qiantang River estuary constitutes one of the key geomorphological conditions for the formation of the Jiuxi tidal bore. This indicates that even small-scale topographical changes can have a significant impact on the formation and characteristics of the tidal bore.



Fig.11 Longitudinal Profile of the Near the Bank Below the Yanshanhe Gate in the Jiuxi Section.
4.4 Wind
ˇˇˇˇMeteorological factors, particularly wind direction and speed, can have incidental and localized impacts on the intensity and morphology of tidal bores. Generally, a downwind (east wind) tends to raise the tide level, while an upwind (west wind) lowers it, and an increase in wind speed intensifies these effects. Overall, a downwind contributes to strengthening the tidal bore, increasing its propagation speed and flow rate. Conversely, an upwind reduces the height and speed of the tidal bore, and the greater the wind speed, the more significant this increase or decrease is. Notably, under the same wind speed, the weakening effect of an upwind on the tidal bore is greater than the enhancing effect of a downwind.
ˇˇˇˇDuring the spring tide, if a typhoon occurs, its impact becomes even more significant. For example, on September 8, 2002 (the second day of the eighth lunar month), during the spring tide, Typhoon "Sinlaku" (Typhoon No. 16) struck, causing the tidal bore to reach Jiuxi half an hour earlier than expected. The tidal bore at Jiuxi bank section, after being reflected near the sluice gates, caused more severe overtopping, forming the largest tidal range and tidal bore intensity in nearly 70 years. This event resulted in more than 100 tourists being swept away by the tide, over 30 injuries, one fatality, and damage to more than a dozen vehicles (see Figure 13).
ˇˇˇˇOn September 20, 2020 (the fourth day of the eighth lunar month), the tidal range at the sluice gates was 2.49 meters, not much different from 2.47 meters on September 19 (the third day of the eighth lunar month). The overtopping phenomenon of the tidal bore on the fourth day of the eighth lunar month was related to the wind's shift from northwest to southeast in the preceding days.
5 Impact of Hydraulic Engineering on the Tidal Bore in the Jiuxi Bank Section
ˇˇˇˇThe culture of watching the Qiantang River's tidal bore originated during the Han and Wei dynasties and reached its peak in the Tang and Song dynasties. The best ancient viewing spots were located in Hangzhou's Phoenix Mountain and Jianggan area, where the "Qiantang Autumn Wave" was already famous both domestically and internationally. However, with the gradual shift in geographical location, Haining Yanguan has been a famous viewing spot since the Ming dynasty. Since the 1960s, due to the Qiantang River estuary management involving narrowing the river channel through land reclamation, there has been a significant change in the characteristics of the tidal bore. The estuary moved downstream, shifting the starting point of the tidal wave from Jiashan in the 1960s to 5 kilometers upstream of Ganpu. This shift resulted in a decrease in the intensity of the tidal bore in the upstream region and an increase in the downstream region.
ˇˇˇˇThe Jiuxi bank section in Hangzhou is located at the upstream end of the Qiantang River estuary. Although theoretically the intensity of the tidal bore here should be weaker, since the 1990s, the Jiuxi bank section has once again become a popular spot for watching the tidal bore upstream of the Qiantang River, closely related to human activities in the area. Investigations and analyses found that changes in the local topography of the Jiuxi bank section mainly stem from the construction of hydraulic projects such as the Coral Sand Reservoir, Yan Shan River drainage sluice, and Jiuxi Shun Dam. Therefore, this study established a mathematical model of the tidal bore to explore the impact of these hydraulic engineering constructions on the characteristics of the tidal bore in the Jiuxi bank section.
5.1 Development of the Tidal Bore Mathematical Model
ˇˇˇˇTo analyze the tidal bore phenomenon in depth, this study established a two-dimensional planar tidal bore numerical model using the KFVS (Kinetic Flux Vector Splitting) format based on the Boltzmann equation. The model's parameters were determined based on the reproduction of field observation results, ensuring the accuracy and reliability of the calculated results.
ˇˇˇˇThe upper boundary of the computational domain was set at the Fuchun River Power Station, and the lower boundary was selected at the cross-section connecting the Hangzhou Bay Ganpu to Yuyao West San Sluice. This area covers the river section where the tidal bore forms and reaches maximum intensity, making the tidal bore characteristics particularly evident here. Horizontally, the model used triangular unstructured grids to discretize the computational domain, enhancing the model's precision and adaptability. The minimum grid step was set to 2 meters, and grid refinement was carried out in the local area near Jiuxi (upstream of the sluice hydrological station) to better capture the detailed characteristics of the tidal bore. The model's time step was set at 0.02 seconds to ensure computational stability and temporal resolution. Details of the model's scope and grid layout are shown in Figure 12.
 

Fig.12 Model Range and Grid Diagram of Jiuxi River Section
5.2 Model Validation
ˇˇˇˇDuring the spring tide in September 2019, hydrological measurements were conducted in the Jiuxi river section and its adjacent areas to validate the changes in the tidal bore water levels. Figure 13 shows the tidal bore water level results at the Qiba, Sluice, and Wenjiayan stations during the tidal cycle, providing significant empirical support for the accuracy of the tidal bore model.

Fig13 Tidal bore verification results for September 2019

5.3 Analysis of Results
5.3.1 Calculation Scheme
ˇˇˇˇIn the Jiuxi bank section, the construction and operation of water-related structures due to human activities mainly include the following stages: the Coral Sand Reservoir built in the late 1970s; the Yan Shan River drainage sluice built in the early 1980s but without gates installed; the installation of gates at Yan Shan River sluice in 1994; and the construction of the Jiuxi Shun Dam in 1996 (see Figure 4). Therefore, the calculation scheme includes the following stages: the period without the Coral Sand Reservoir; the period with the Coral Sand Reservoir and the Yan Shan River sluice open; the period with the Coral Sand Reservoir and the Yan Shan River sluice closed; and the situation with the Coral Sand Reservoir, Yan Shan River sluice closed, and Jiuxi Shun Dam in place. The changes in structures at these different stages have had a significant impact on the characteristics of the tidal bore in the Jiuxi bank section.
5.3.2 Calculation of Tidal Bore Flow Conditions
ˇˇˇˇGiven that the tidal bore of interest in the Jiuxi bank section is less frequent, under normal conditions during the spring tide, the tidal range at the sluice station is less than 1.5 meters. Under these conditions, the tidal bore head in the Jiuxi bank section usually appears as a wavy tidal bore, which is not ideal for viewing. Therefore, this study's numerical model mainly focuses on the analysis of the tidal range conditions that occur once every three years (i.e., a tidal range of 2.6 meters), based on this to assess the impact of changes in hydraulic engineering in the Jiuxi bank section on the characteristics of the tidal bore.
5.3.3 Computational Results
ˇˇˇˇTo analyze the variations of the tidal bore in the Jiuxi section under different conditions, we set up 5 characteristic observation points near the Yan Shan River drainage sluice and the Jiuxi Shun Dam (see Figure 14). These points will help us accurately assess the impact of engineering changes on the characteristics of the tidal bore.

Fig.14. Diagram of the layout of characteristic points for calculating tidal bore changes in the Jiuxi bank section
Through calculations, we obtained the tidal bore height index at each characteristic point under the conditions of a once-in-three-years tidal range (see Table 1), as well as the entire process of the tidal bore's progression (see Figure 15).
Table 1, Heights of Characteristic Points Under Once-in-Three-Years Tidal Bore Flow Conditions (m)
Calculation SchemeDescription of Conditions1#2#3#4#5#Scheme1No reservoir, no sluice gates, no dam1.371.201.481.631.99Scheme2Reservoir present, sluice gates open, no shun dam1.481.321.811.962.32Scheme3Reservoir present, sluice gates closed, no shun dam2.012.021.992.264.52*Scheme4Reservoir present, sluice gates closed, shun dam present1.542.181.492.163.79**Note: This location is situated downstream of the gate and includes the reflected surge height



Fig.15 Tidal Bore Water Level Processes at Various Feature Points in the Jiuxi Section Bank Under Different Scheme Conditions
ˇˇˇˇBased on the analysis of Table 1 and Figure 15, several observations about the changes in the tidal bore characteristics of the Jiuxi bank section can be made:
ˇˇˇˇThe construction of the Coral Sand dyke significantly enhanced the local tidal bore intensity in the Jiuxi section. The average tidal bore height at characteristic points increased by 16%, and the height of the returning tide increased by 11%.
ˇˇˇˇAfter the construction of the Coral Sand Reservoir, with the Yan Shan River sluice closed, there was an even greater average increase in the tidal bore height at characteristic points, especially along the front of the sluice gates. Due to the superimposed reflection effect, the increase in the tidal bore height exceeded 2 meters, becoming the primary reason for the formation of a spectacular tidal bore and reflected backflow overtopping the dam and pond in the Jiuxi bank section.
ˇˇˇˇThe construction of the Jiuxi Shun Dam led to a reduction in the tidal bore height between the dam and the sluice, with an average decrease of 13% in tidal bore height at characteristic points. Simultaneously, the aggrandizing effect produced by superimposed reflection in front of the sluice was also weakened.
6 Conclusion
ˇˇˇˇThe factors affecting the strength of the tidal bore in the Jiuxi bank section of the Qiantang River estuary mainly include natural factors and human activities, particularly the construction of water-related projects in the Jiuxi bank section.
ˇˇˇˇTides, runoff, topography, and meteorology are the primary macro factors affecting the tidal bore intensity in the Jiuxi bank section. The tidal range at the downstream sluice hydrological station in the Jiuxi bank section is linearly positively correlated with the strength of the tidal bore. The upstream runoff volume is the key factor dominating the changes in riverbed topography, especially after the plum rain season in wet years, leading to the deepening of the river channel and a relative increase in the tidal bore intensity during the spring tide. Wind strength and direction are incidental factors causing variations in the strength of the tidal bore. The funnel-shaped planform profile and gradually rising subaqueous topography near the shore of the Jiuxi bank section play an important role in enhancing the observability of the tidal bore.
ˇˇˇˇHuman activities, especially the construction and operation of the Coral Sand Reservoir and the Yan Shan River drainage sluice in the Jiuxi bank section, play a decisive role in forming spectacular tides, reflected backflows, and even tidal bores overtopping the sea pond into Zhijiang Road. The construction of the Jiuxi Shun Dam has, to some extent, weakened the intensity of the spectacular tide and overtopping tide.


References  
[1].Pan Cunhong, Wang Qiushun, Pan Dongzi. Three-Dimensional Numerical Study on the Response of the Qiantang River Tidal Bore to the Wind Field [J]. Journal of Water Resources and Hydropower Engineering, 2019(6): 77-85.
[2].Xie Dongfeng, Pan Cunhong, Lu Bo. Study on the Hydrodynamic Characteristics of the Qiantang River Tidal Bore Based on Measured Data [J]. Advances in Water Science, 2012(9): 501-508.
[3].He Zhenzhou, Huang Haizhen, Li Leiyang, et al. Characteristics of Annual Variation of the Qiantang River Tidal Bore and Its Influencing Factors [J]. Hydropower and Energy Science, 2021(1): 34-37.
[4].Pan C HŁ¬Lu H YŁ¬Zeng J. Research advance of tidal bore on Qiantang River[C]//Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Asian and Pacific Coasts(APAC)Ł¬HongKongŁ¬2011Łş596-603ˇŁ
[5].Yang Huoqi, Pan Cunhong, Zhou Jianjiong. Experimental Study on Hydraulic Characteristics of Tidal Bore [J]. Hydropower and Energy Science, 2008(8): 136-138.
[6].Zhou Qiansheng. Analysis and Forecast of the Tidal Timing Rules of the Qiantang River (Hangzhou Section) [J]. Marine Forecast, 1993(1): 53-58.
[7].Zeng Jian, Xiong Shaolong, Pan Cunhong, et al. Study on the Influencing Factors of the Qiantang River Tidal Bore Using Neural Network Theory [J]. Journal of the Yangtze River Scientific Research Institute, 2006(5): 14-16.
[8].Zhang Shuyu, Pan Cunhong, Cheng Wenlong. Study on the Response of the Qiantang River Tidal Bore to Topographic Changes [J]. Ocean Engineering, 2020(01): 130-139.
[9].Pan Cunhong, Pan Dongzi, Zheng Jun, et al. Study on the Impact of Typhoon on the Qiantang River Tidal Bore [J]. Marine Science Research, 2020(4): 40-47.
[10].Lu Xiangxing, Yang Huoqi, Zeng Jian. Study on the Impact of Bridge Construction Downstream of the Qiantang River on Tidal Bore Landscape [J]. Marine Science Research, 2006(1): 37-42.
[11].Pan Cunhong, Lu Haiyan, Zeng Jian. The Impact of Human Activities on the Qiantang River Tidal Bore [J], 2007 Annual Conference of the China Water Conservancy Society: 48-54.
[12].Shen Asi. Historical Exploration on the Formation of the Qiantang River Tidal Bore [J]. Zhejiang Water Conservancy Science and Technology, 2002(03): 75-76.
[13].Jin Jianfeng, Qian Xuecheng, Zhang Yulun, et al. Study on the Protection Scheme of Jiuxi Tidal Bore in the Qiantang River Based on Two-Dimensional Numerical Simulation [J]. Zhejiang Water Conservancy Science and Technology, 2019(6): 11-17.
[14].Yang Huoqi, Xu Xin, He Kun, et al. Experimental Study on the Impact of Tidal Bore Overtopping on the Jiuxi Bank Section of the Qiantang River Estuary [J]. Waterway and Harbor, 2021(05): 603-608.
[15].Chen Zhuo, Li Wei, Hu Peng, et al. Study on the Interaction Between River Regime Changes and Tidal Flow in the Qiantang River [J]. Ocean Engineering, 2022(01): 149-159.
[16].Chen Wenjiang, Wang Jufeng, Zhao Guangqian, et al. Study on the Evolution of the Qiantang River Estuary Channel in the Past 10 Years Based on Measured Data [J]. Zhejiang Water Conservancy Science and Technology, 2022(05): 6-10.
[17].Editorial Committee of Qiantang River, Qiantang River [M]. Fangzhi Publishing House, 1998.
Pan Cunhong, Zheng Jun, Hu Chengfei, et al. Study on the Influencing Factors of the Qiantang River Tidal Bore [J]. Journal of Sediment Research, 2023(2): 13-20.
[18].Pan Cunhong, Lu Haiyan. Application of a Two-Dimensional Shallow Water Discontinuous Flow Numerical Model in Tidal Bore Simulation [J]. Journal of Zhejiang University (Engineering Science Edition), 2009(11): 2107-2113.


Funding Project: Zhejiang Province Basic Public Welfare Research Program (LY22E090007)




4


